* page-040
UNIT 1 ACTIVITY

ABOUT ME
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

45–60 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Introduce students to the concept of the interactive collage, a
Scratch project that represents aspects of themselves through
clickable sprites. Optionally, show interactive project examples
from the About Me studio.
! Have students sign in to their Scratch accounts and open a
new project. Optionally, have the About Me handout and
Scratch Cards available to provide guidance. Give students
time to create an About Me interactive collage Scratch
project, encouraging them to build up their programs by
experimenting and iterating.
! Allow students to share their works-in-progress with others.
We suggest pair-share: have students share and discuss their
projects in pairs. Optionally, invite students to add their
projects to the About Me studio or a class studio.
! Ask students to think back on the design process by
responding to the reflection prompts in their design
journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  Example projects can simultaneously inspire and
intimidate, open the creative space and constrain it.
Encourage a wide range of creations; diversity is great!
+  Students can further personalize projects by using a camera
or webcam to bring images into the project.

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  become familiar with a wider range of Scratch blocks
+  be able to create an open-ended Scratch project that is
an interactive digital representation of their personal
interests

RESOURCES
! About Me handout
! About Me studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475470
! Scratch Cards
http://scratch.mit.edu/help/cards

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What are you most proud of? Why?
+  What did you get stuck on? How did you get unstuck?
+  What might you want to do next?
+  What did you discover from looking at others’ About Me
projects?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Do projects make creative use of sprites, costumes, looks,
backdrops, or sound?
+  Are projects interactive? Can users interact with various
elements within the project?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 

36


