* page-140
gallery walk: A sharing activity in which students put their projects in presentation mode and then walk around and explore each
other’s projects.
hardware and extensions: Supplemental materials that connect the digital world of Scratch with the physical world. Examples
of hardware extensions include: LEGO WeDo, PicoBoard, and MaKey MaKey.
interactive collage: A Scratch project that incorporates a variety of clickable sprites.
looks: One of the ten categories of Scratch blocks. They are color-coded purple, and are used to control a sprite's appearance.
loops: The computational concept of running the same sequence multiple times.
make a block: A feature found within the More Blocks category that allows students to create and define their own custom block or
procedure.
motion: One of the ten categories of Scratch blocks. They are color-coded medium-blue, and are used to control a sprite’s movement.
operators: The computational concept of supporting mathematical and logical expressions.
paint editor: Scratch's built-in image editor. Many Scratchers create their own sprites, costumes, and backdrops using it.
pair programming: A programming methodology in which developers pair up and work side-by-side on a project.
parallelism: The computational concept of making things happen at the same time.
pass-it-on story: A Scratch project that is started by a pair of people, and then passed on to two other pairs to extend and
reimagine.
peer interviews: A sharing activity in which students take turns interviewing one another about their processes of reflection, selfassessment, and research.
pitch: An activity in which students either announce a project idea in order to recruit other team members, or promote their interests,
skills, and talents in order to be recruited by other teams.
presentation mode: A display mode in Scratch that allows projects to be viewed at an enlarged size. It is accessed by pressing the
button on the top left of the Scratch program. This mode is also called full screen mode or enlarged screen.
profile page: A page on the Scratch online community dedicated to displaying information about a Scratch user, such as projects they
have created or bookmarked (a.k.a. “favorited”).
project editor: A feature of the Scratch online community that allows projects to be modified. This includes the script area (where
scripts are assembled), the sprite area (where sprites can be manipulated), and the stage area (where sprites are positioned and
where backgrounds can be accessed).
red, yellow, green: A reflection and sharing activity in which individuals identify aspects of their projects as not going well or still
needing work (“red”), confusing or contentious (“yellow”), or working well (“green”).
remix: A creative work that is derived from an original work (or from another remix). A remix typically introduces new content or
stylistic elements, while retaining a degree of similarity to the original work.
reusing and remixing: The computational practice of making something by building on existing projects or ideas.
Scratch screening: A sharing activity in which students gather around to observe each other’s Scratch projects.
scripts: One or more Scratch blocks connected together to form a sequence. Scripts begin with an event block that responds to input
(e.g., mouse click, broadcast). When triggered, additional blocks connected to the event block are executed one at a time.
sensing: One of the ten categories of Scratch blocks. They are color-coded light-blue, and are used to detect different forms of input
(e.g., mouse position) or program state (e.g., sprite position).
sequence: The computational concept of identifying a series of steps for a task.
136

showcase: A strategy for sharing in which students present their final projects to others and reflect on their design processes and
computational creation experiences.


