* page-009
HOW SHOULD I USE THIS GUIDE?
USE AS MUCH
OR AS LITTLE AS
YOU LIKE

DESIGN
NEW
ACTIVITIES

REMIX
INCLUDED
ACTIVITIES

CHOOSE
YOUR OWN
ADVENTURE!

We encourage you to use as much or as little of the
guide as you like, to design new activities, and to
remix the included activities. No matter your prior
experience or expertise, we think of every educator
as a co-designer of the Creative Computing
experience. We would love to learn about what
you’re doing, so we encourage you to document and
share your experiences with us and with other
educators via the ScratchEd community at
http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu
We are releasing this guide under a Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike license, which means that you are
completely free to use, change, and share this work, as
long as you provide appropriate attribution and give others
access to any derivative works.

WHERE DID THIS GUIDE COME FROM?
This guide was developed by members of the ScratchEd research team at the Harvard Graduate School of Education – Christan Balch,
Michelle Chung, and Karen Brennan. Jeff Hawson provided editing support and inexhaustible enthusiasm.
 
The guide contents draw on a previous version of the Creative Computing Guide (released in 2011) and on the Creative Computing Online
Workshop (hosted in 2013). These were made possible with support from the National Science Foundation through grant DRL-1019396, the
Google CS4HS program, and the Code-to-Learn Foundation.
 
We are enormously appreciative of the numerous educators who have used the previous version of this guide and participated in
workshops. In particular, we would like to thank the educators who extensively tested the first guide (Russell Clough, Judy Hoffman, Kara
Kestner, Alvin Kroon, Melissa Nordmann, and Tyson Spraul) and the educators who extensively reviewed the current guide (Ingrid
Gustafson, Megan Haddadi, Keledy Kenkel, Adam Scharfenberger, and LeeAnn Wells).
We are also greatly appreciative of our collaborators. We would like to thank Wendy Martin, Francisco Cervantes, and Bill Tally from
Education Development Center’s Center for Children & Technology, and Mitch Resnick from the MIT Media Lab for their extensive
contributions in developing the computational thinking framework and resources. We would like to thank the many amazing Harvard
Graduate School of Education interns who have contributed to the guide development over the past several years since the initial version in
2011, including Vanity Gee, Vanessa Gennarelli, Mylo Lam, Tomoko Matsukawa, Aaron Morris, Matthew Ong, Roshanak Razavi, Mary Jo
Madda, Eric Schilling, and Elizabeth Woodbury.

5


