* page-126
UNIT 6 ACTIVITY

PROJECT
FEEDBACK
S U G G E S T E D

OBJECTIVES

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Divide the group into feedback teams of 3-4 people, so that
their feedback team members are not also members of their
project team. Optionally, have students gather in their critique
groups from the Unit 0 Critique Group activity.
! Distribute the Project Feedback handout to each person, and
review the different handout elements. Ask students to fill out
the top portion of the handout with their name and project
title.
! Ask students to spend 10 minutes reviewing each project in
their feedback team and critiquing the project draft using the
Red, Yellow, Green feedback questions. When the review is
complete, each student will have received feedback on their
project from the other members of their feedback group.
! After all the feedback rounds have ended, give students time to
meet with their project team members to review the feedback
and reflect on which suggestions they want to incorporate into
their project during the next Design Sprint session. Optionally,
collect the completed Project Feedback handouts at the end
of this activity to return to students at the beginning of the
Project Check-In activity or Design Sprint sessions.

NOTES
+  Different people will provide different perspectives on the
project-in-progress. Create opportunities for learners to get
feedback from a variety of sources, including themselves!

By completing this activity, students will:
+  will work together in small critique groups to give each
other preliminary feedback on their projects
+  test projects-in-progress
+  formulate and share feedback for others

RESOURCES
! Project Feedback handout

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What aspects of your project could someone give you
feedback about?
+  What feedback, if any, do you plan to incorporate into
your project next?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Did each student have opportunities to give and receive
feedback from various sources?
+  Did each student complete the Project Feedback handout?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 

122


