* page-052
UNIT 2 ACTIVITY

IT’S ALIVE!
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Optionally, show example projects from the It’s Alive! studio
and have the It’s Alive! handout available to guide students.
! Introduce the concept of an animation as looping through a
series of incrementally different pictures, such as in a
flipbook or a claymation film. Encourage students to
explore loops by changing costumes or backdrops to create
an animation.
! Invite students to share their work with others by hosting a
gallery walk: have students put their projects in
presentation mode and then invite them to walk around
and explore each other’s projects. Optionally, have students
add their projects to the It’s Alive studio or a class studio.
! Ask students to think back on the design process by
responding to the reflection prompts in their design
journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  The difference between sprites and costumes is often a
source of confusion for Scratchers. The metaphor of actors
wearing multiple costumes can help clarify the difference.
+  Students can animate their own image by taking pictures of
themselves using a camera or webcam.

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  become more familiar with the computational concepts
of sequence and loops by experimenting with Control
blocks
+  be able to explain the difference between sprites and
costumes
+  practice experimenting and iterating through
developing an animation project

RESOURCES
! It’s Alive! handout
! It’s Alive! studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475529

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What is the difference between a sprite and a costume?
+  What is an animation?
+  List three ways you experience loops in real life
(e.g., going to sleep every night).

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Can students distinguish sprites and costumes?
+  Some Scratchers are particularly interested in developing
animation projects and prefer to spend their time
drawing and designing sprites, costumes, or backdrops.
How might you engage students in both the aesthetic and
technical aspects of projects?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 

48


