* page-018
UNIT 0 ACTIVITY

DESIGN JOURNAL
S U G G E S T E D

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  start a personalized design journal for documenting
their design process and reflections

T I M E

15 – 3 0 M I N U T E S

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Introduce students to the idea of the design journal, a physical
or digital notebook where they can brainstorm ideas and share
personal reflections, similar to a personal journal or diary.
Explain that students will be prompted to update their design
journals throughout their Scratch programming adventures,
but encourage them to add to their journals anytime during
the process of designing projects to capture ideas, inspiration,
notes, sketches, questions, frustrations, triumphs, etc.
! Look through sample design journals to get ideas for what
type of design journals (paper or digital) will work best for
your students. Give students time to start and personalize
their design journals.
! Ask students to create their first design journal post by
responding to the reflection prompts on the right.
! Encourage students to share their design journals and
initial reflections with a neighbor.

NOTES
+  During other guide activities, facilitate group discussions
around relevant reflection prompts.
+  Decide whether design journals should be private or public.
For example, you could maintain one-on-one feedback with
students through private journals or have students leave
comments for peers on shared journals. Consider the pros
and cons of each option.
14

RESOURCES
! sample design journals
http://bit.ly/designjournal-paper
http://bit.ly/designjournal-digital
http://bit.ly/designjournal-blog
! paper and craft materials (for paper journals)

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  How would you describe Scratch to a friend?
+  Write or sketch ideas for three different Scratch projects
you are interested in creating.

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  What do the reflection responses tell you about the types
of projects students might be interested in pursuing?
+  Based on students’ responses, which units in this guide
might appeal to your different students?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


