* page-120
UNIT 6 ACTIVITY

PROJECT
PLANNING
S U G G E S T E D

OBJECTIVES

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Taking some time at the start of the final project to explore
ideas, identify tasks involved in completing the project, and
list what is (and isn’t) already known can be very beneficial
for successful project completion.
! Divide the group into project teams. Optionally, distribute the
Project Planning and Project Sketches handouts to each
team or individual.
! Review different elements for planning projects (project
sketches, outline of tasks, list of resources, storyboards/
wireframes). Give the teams 15 minutes to brainstorm
ideas, plans, and resources for their projects. Students who
already have a clear concept and plan are welcome to start
working on their project design.
! Optionally, collect the completed Project Planning and
Project Sketches handouts at the end of this activity to
return to students at the beginning of Design Sprint
sessions.

NOTES
+  Although planning is helpful, it shouldn’t be all-consuming
or the only way of doing things. Different students will
want and need to plan and tinker to different extents – and
different phases of the project will require different
approaches. Multiple design and development styles should
be encouraged and accommodated.

116

By completing this activity, students will:
+  identify an appropriately-scoped project to work on
+  develop an outline of activities or tasks required to
complete the project
+  generate a preliminary list of resources required to
complete the project

RESOURCES
! Project Planning handout
! Project Sketches handout

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What project do I want to create?
+  What steps will I take to develop my project?
+  What resources (e.g., people, sample projects) do I
already have to develop my project?
+  What resources (e.g., people, sample projects) might I
need to develop my project?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Is the project appropriately scoped for the amount of
time and resources available for this hackathon?
+  How can you make resources accessible to students who
need them?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


