* page-007
WHO IS THIS GUIDE FOR?
No matter your current context or prior experience,
this guide was designed with a wide range of learners
and educators in mind. Here are a few examples of
who might use the guide and how they might use it:

K-12 TEACHER
Scratch is being used in thousands of elementary, middle-school,
and high-school classrooms around the world. The guide can be
used in its entirety as a semester-long computing course, or
selectively as part of other curricular areas. Many educators
introduce creative computing as an after-school or lunch-time
program, using the activities as inspiration and scaffolding for
students’ open-ended explorations.

MUSEUM OR LIBRARY EDUCATOR
In addition to formal learning environments like classrooms,
Scratch has been used in informal learning spaces like museums
and libraries. Whether as a structured workshop experience or a
drop-in play space, these learning environments are ideal for
supporting explorations in creative computing, without some of
the restrictions present in traditional settings.

e
v
i
t
a
e
r
C
s
i
g
n
i
t
compu
!
y
d
o
b
y
r
e
v
e
r
fo
COLLEGE INSTRUCTOR
Scratch can serve as an introduction to fundamental
computational concepts and practices, often followed by a
transition to more traditional text-based programming languages
in computer science courses. For example, the CS50 course at
Harvard University uses Scratch as an introductory programming
experience before transitioning to the C programming language.
The activities have also been used as part of education, art, and
media literacy courses at the college level.

YOUNG LEARNER

PARENT
Parents can use the guide in a wide range of ways. From
supporting homeschooling activities, to starting creative computing
clubs at school, to hosting workshops at local community centers,
parents are encouraged to think about how to use the guide to
support the creative computing experiences of young learners.

Over the past seven years since Scratch’s launch, young learners
have been passionate advocates for creative computing in a
variety of settings. From introducing their parents and teachers to
programming, to creating learning opportunities for their peers,
creative computing can be something that is done with them or by
them, rather than just for them.

WHAT DO I NEED IN ORDER TO USE THIS GUIDE?
In addition to time and an openness to adventure, some important resources include:
+  Computers with speakers (and, optionally, microphones and webcams): for the computer-based design activities
+  Network connection: for connecting to Scratch online (if your environment does not offer a network connection, a
downloadable version of Scratch is available)
+  Projector or interactive whiteboard with speakers: for sharing works-in-progress and for demonstrations
+  Design notebooks (physical or digital): for documenting, sketching, and brainstorming ideas and plans

3


