* page-072
UNIT 3 ACTIVITY

PASS IT ON
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

45–60 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Divide the group into pairs. Introduce students to the concept
of a pass-it-on-story, a Scratch project that is started by a pair
of people, and then passed on to two other pairs to extend and
reimagine. Optionally, print out the Pass It On handout.
! Encourage students to start in whatever way they want –
focusing on characters, scene, plot, or whatever element
excites them. Give each pair 10 minutes to work on their
collaborative story before having them rotate to extend
another story by remixing the project. Encourage students
to give credit for reusing or remixing content.
! After two rotations, allow students to revisit story projects
with their contributions. We suggest hosting a Scratch
screening: with projector and screen, present the story
projects with students gathered around to watch. Optionally,
invite students to add their projects to the Pass It On studio or
a class studio.
! Ask students to respond to the reflection prompts in their
design journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  Consider organizing your Scratch screening as an event!
Invite students from other classes to the viewing, offer
snacks and drinks, or host the event in an auditorium or
room with a large wall or screen for displaying projects.
+  Introduce students to the backpack (located at the bottom
of the Scratch project editor) as another way to remix
projects. Learn more about this tool in the Backpack video
tutorial: http://bit.ly/scratchbackpack
68

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  be able to create a Scratch project that tells a story by
reusing and remixing the work of others
+  experience pair programming by working in pairs to
develop a collaborative storytelling project

RESOURCES
! Pass It On handout
! Pass It On studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475543
! Projector and screen to present student work (optional)

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  How did it feel to remix and build on others’ work? How
did it feel to be remixed?
+  Where else in your life have you seen or experienced
reusing and remixing? Share two examples.
+  How was working with someone else different from your
prior experiences of designing your Scratch projects?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  What parts of projects did students contribute to?
+  Do students seem comfortable with the concepts of events
and parallelism and practices of reusing and remixing?
If not, in what ways can these be further clarified?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


