* page-143
STANDARDS
The activities in this guide make connections to several different K-12 curriculum standards, including the Common
Core State Standards, the CSTA K-12 Computer Science Standards, and ISTE NETS. We have included connections to
Common Core Standards as an example.
For more connections, please visit the guide site at http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu/guide
Common Core State Standards for Mathematics 2010
http://www.corestandards.org/wp-content/uploads/Math_Standards.pdf
+  Make sense of problems and persevere in solving them – Many guide activities engage students in solving debugging challenges,
which encourage students to discover different ways of finding and solving problems. Example activity: Unit 1 - 4 Debug It!
+  Reason Abstractly and Quantitatively – Students can express abstract concepts and demonstrate their understandings of quantitative
relationships such as variables through visual representations designed in Scratch. Example activity: Unit 4 Score
+  Model with Mathematics – Certain activities in the guide challenge students to represent previously learned equations, data
comparisons, or other mathematical relationships as Scratch programs. Example activity: Unit 4 Interactions
+  Attend to precision – On- and off-screen activities help students recognize the importance of attending to detail when specifying
instructions or a sequence of code intended to elicit a particular outcome. Example activity: Unit 1 Programmed to Dance
+  Look for and Make Use of Structure – Looking through scripts during a debugging challenge, reading through someone else’s project
code while remixing a project, or reviewing work to build up more complex programs can engage students in looking closely to discern
repeated patterns or structure within their own or others’ Scratch programs. Example activity: Unit 3 Conversations
Common Core State Standards for English Language Arts/Literacy 2010
http://www.corestandards.org/wp-content/uploads/ELA_Standards.pdf
+  They demonstrate independence. – Most activities and projects in the guide are designed to be self-directed or can be easily adjusted to
accommodate independent work, although collaborative projects and group work are encouraged. Example activity: Unit 1 About Me
+  They respond to the varying demands of audience, task, purpose, and discipline. – Students are made aware of varying types of
audience, task, purpose, and discipline when sharing projects to the worldwide Scratch online community or designing projects and
activities for others. Example activity: Unit 5 Activity Design
+  They comprehend as well as critique. – A variety of feedback exercises and collaborative projects engage students in sharing works-inprogress, asking questions, and exchanging constructive critique. Example activity: Unit 0 Critique Group
+  They use technology and digital media strategically and capably. – During self-directed activities, students learn to navigate to
different parts of the Scratch website to develop projects, search for inspiration, connect with others, and pursue personal learning
goals. Example activity: Unit 5 Know Want Learn
+  They come to understand other perspectives and cultures. – In remixing others’ projects, students need to read, understand, and
interpret the code and intention of work that is not their own. When building up collaborative projects, students learn to cooperate,
compromise, and share work with others. Example Activity: Unit 3 Pass It On

139


