* page-022
UNIT 0 ACTIVITY

SCRATCH STUDIO
S U G G E S T E D

By completing this activity, students will:
+  be able to add a project to a studio
+  be able to post comments on other Scratch projects

T I M E

5 – 15 M I N U T E S

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Scratch studios are one way to collect and organize Scratch
projects online. In this activity, help students understand what
studios are and how to add a project to a studio. Optionally,
have the Scratch Studio handout available to guide students.
! First, have students navigate to the Scratch website and
sign in to their accounts. Next, help students find the
Scratch Surprise studio or a class studio you’ve created.
Then, let students share their Scratch Surprise explorations
with others by adding their programs to the studio.
! Encourage students to investigate other projects in the
studio. Invite them to add a comment on the project page of
two projects in the collection that they find particularly
interesting or inspiring. Engage the group in a discussion
about how to give appropriate and purposeful feedback.
! Ask students to think back on their creative explorations by
responding to the reflection prompts in their design
journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  Create your own studio(s) to collect student work. Start a
class Scratch Surprise studio using your Scratch account and
then give students the studio link to “turn in” projects.
Create one dedicated studio to gather all class projects or
distribute activities across separate studios to track student
progress.

18

OBJECTIVES

RESOURCES
! Scratch Studio handout
! Scratch Surprise studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/460431

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What are Scratch studios for?
+  What did you find interesting or inspiring about looking
at other projects?
+  What two comments did you share?
+  What is “good” feedback?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Did students successfully add their projects to the studio?
+  Did students comment appropriately on others’ work?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


