* page-118
UNIT 6 ACTIVITY

PROJECT
PITCH

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  brainstorm project ideas based on personal interests
+  pitch ideas, interests, and skills to form project teams
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Introduce students to the concept of a pitch. With a pitch,
students can either announce a project idea in order to recruit
other team members, or they can promote their interests,
skills, or talents, in order to be recruited by other teams.
! Distribute the Pitch handout, giving students time to
brainstorm and to respond on the handout. Some students
already may have a project idea or have identified a specific
interest or skill they want to share or further explore. Let
students know that if they don’t have a specific project idea
or interest, they will have an opportunity to join another
team. Optionally, have students review inspiration projects
identified during the Unit 1 My Studio activity.
! Give each student a chance to pitch to the rest of the group.
Ask people to line up if they want to pitch, and give them thirty
seconds each to describe their project, interest, or skill.
! Provide time for students to form project groups of 3 or 4
people. Optionally, have students write their names and
project interests on sticky notes that can be arranged and
sorted on a wall to facilitate team-building.

NOTES
+  Students can be enormously valuable in providing support
and guidance to each other throughout all of the Scratch
sessions, and particularly during the hackathon sessions.
Encouraging young people to share their knowledge and
skills with others makes things easier for the facilitator, but
can also significantly deepen creators’ learning and
understanding.
114

RESOURCES
! Pitch handout
! sticky notes (optional)

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What has been your favorite project to work on so far?
+  What kinds of projects are you interested in creating
next?
+  What knowledge, skills, or talents could you contribute to
a project?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Did each student get a chance to pitch their idea or
interests?
+  Did each student find a project team to join?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


