* page-090
UNIT 4 ACTIVITY

DEBUG IT!
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

15 – 3 0 M I N U T E S

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  investigate the problem and find a solution to five
debugging challenges
+  explore a range of concepts (conditionals, operators,
and data) through the practices of testing and
debugging

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Optionally, have the Unit 4 Debug It! handout available to
guide students during the activity.
! Help students open the Debug It! programs from the Unit 4
Debug It! studio or by following the project links listed on
the Unit 4 Debug It! handout. Encourage students to click
on the “Look Inside” button to investigate the buggy
program, tinker with problematic code, and test possible
solutions.
! Give students time to test and debug each Debug It!
challenge. Optionally, have students use the remix function
in Scratch to fix the bugs and save corrected programs.
! Ask students to reflect back on their testing and debugging
experiences by responding to the reflection prompts in their
design journals or in a group discussion.
! Create a class list of debugging strategies by collecting
students’ problem finding and problem solving approaches.

NOTES
+  This activity provides an opportunity to check in with
students who might need some additional attention or
support, particularly around the concepts of conditionals
(e.g., if), operators (e.g., arithmetic, logical), and data
(e.g., variables, lists).

RESOURCES
! Unit 4 Debug It! handout
! Unit 4 Debug It! studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475634

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What was the problem?
+  How did you identify the problem?
+  How did you fix the problem?
+  Did others have alternative approaches to fixing the
problem?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Were students able to solve all five bugs? If not, how
might you clarify the concepts expressed in the unsolved
programs?
+  What different testing and debugging strategies did
students employ?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 

86


