* page-124
UNIT 6 ACTIVITY

DESIGN
SPRINT

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  use computational concepts and practices to further
develop a Scratch project of their choosing
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

45–60 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Introduce students to the concept of a design sprint, which is a
specified amount of time dedicated to working intensely on
developing projects.
! Ask students to write down goals for this session using the
Project Check-In activity or by responding to the reflection
prompts in their design teams or in their design journals.
Give students their completed Project Planning, Project
Feedback, and Unfocus Group handouts to guide them in
reflecting on original project goals and to encourage them to
make plans for refinement based on feedback.
! Give students self-directed time to work on their projects.
Introduce and distribute additional support resources as
needed. In addition to peer support, having a collection of
readily-available support resources can help students
continue to make progress. Sample projects on the Scratch
website (http://scratch.mit.edu) can provide ideas, and
additional resources can be found on the ScratchEd website
(http://scratched.gse.harvard.edu).

RESOURCES
! additional resources (e.g., sample projects, handouts,
Scratch Cards, craft material)

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What part of your project will you be working on today?
+  What might you need help with in order to make
progress?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Are individuals or groups making reasonable progress?
+  What feedback or suggestions do you have for the
projects?

! Optionally, ask students to post their project drafts in a class
studio.

NOTES
+  All design activities are constrained – by time, by resources,
by our own abilities at a given moment – and compromises
may need to be made. The open-ended designing sessions
are a great opportunity to have conversations with students
about the essential elements of their projects. What are the
most important aspects of the projects? What can
reasonably be accomplished in the remaining time?
120

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


