* page-139
GLOSSARY
A guide to the key words, concepts, and practices in the curriculum guide:
Visit the Scratch help pages at http://scratch.mit.edu/help or the community-generated Scratch Wiki at
http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu for additional, Scratch-specific terminology.
abstracting and modularizing: The computational practice of exploring connections between the whole and the parts.
animation: An illusion of continuous motion created by the rapid display of a sequence of still images with incremental differences.
arcade day: A strategy for sharing student work and whole group activity. Students place their finished projects in Presentation Mode
and then walk around and engage with each other’s work.
backdrop: One out of possibly many frames, or backgrounds, of the Stage.
backpack: A Scratch feature that can be used to conveniently transfer media and/or scripts between projects.
bitmap: An image that is defined by a two-dimensional array (grid) of discrete color values (a.k.a. “pixels”). Contrast with vector
graphics.
broadcast: A message that is sent through the Scratch program, activating receiving scripts.
cloning: A Scratch feature that allows a sprite to create duplicates of itself while the project is running.
computational concepts: The concepts designers engage with as they program, such as sequence, loops, conditionals, events,
parallelism, operators, and data.
computational perspectives: The broader perspectives that designers may form about world around them through computing –
such as expressing themselves, connecting with others, and posing questions about technology’s role in the world. 
computational practices: The distinctive habits of mind that programmers develop as they work, such as experimenting and
iterating, testing and debugging, remixing and reusing work, and abstracting and modularizing.
conditionals: The computational concept of making decisions based on conditions (e.g., current variable values).
control: One of the ten categories of Scratch blocks. They are color-coded gold, and are used to control scripts.
costume: One out of possibly many “frames” or alternate appearances of a sprite. A sprite can change its look to any of its costumes.
critique group: A group of designers who share ideas and test projects-in-progress with one another in order to get feedback on how
to further develop their projects.
data: The computational concept of storing, retrieving, and updating values.
design demo: An activity in which students are invited to present their work to the class and demonstrate how they implemented a
particular block, skill, or design strategy within their project.
design sprint: A specified amount of time dedicated to working intensely on developing projects.
events: The computational concept of one thing causing another thing to happen.
experimenting and iterating: The computational practice of developing a little bit, then trying it out, then developing some
more.
feedback fair: A sharing activity in which half of your students stay in their seats with their projects open while the other half walks
around exploring projects, asking questions, and giving feedback. Once complete, the students then switch sides and start the process
over.
135


