* page-062
UNIT 3 ACTIVITY

CHARACTERS
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Optionally, show example projects from the Characters studio
and have the Characters handout available to guide students.
! Give students time to create their own Scratch blocks using
the Make a Block feature found in the More Blocks
category. Help them design two sprites or “characters” that
each have two behaviors. Optionally, conduct a
walkthrough of the Make a Block feature together as a
class.
! Allow students to share their characters and behaviors with
one another. We suggest the design demo activity: invite a
few students to present their work to the class and
demonstrate how they implemented the Make a Block
feature. Optionally, have students add their projects to the
Characters studio or a separate class studio.
! Ask students to think back on the design process by
responding to the reflection prompts in their design
journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  If students are struggling with figuring out how to use the
Make a Block feature, invite them to explore how others
implemented the feature by investigating the code of
projects in the Characters studio.
+  Learn more about the Make a Block feature in this video
tutorial: http://bit.ly/makeablock

58

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  experiment with defining behaviors for characters
using Scratch’s Make a Block feature
+  gain more familiarity with the computational concepts
of events and parallelism and the practice of
experimenting and iterating

RESOURCES
! Characters handout
! Characters studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475545

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  How would you explain Make a Block to someone else?
+  When might you use Make a Block?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Do projects include two sprites that each have two
behaviors using the Make a Block feature?
+  Can students explain how to use the Make a Block
feature to each other and to you?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


