* page-080
UNIT 4 ACTIVITY

STARTER
GAMES

S U G G E S T E D

OBJECTIVES

T I M E

45–60 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! In this activity, students will create a starter game project that
can be revisited and extended during the Score, Extensions,
and Interactions activities. Optionally, show the Maze, Pong,
and Scrolling example starter projects, and have the Maze,
Pong, and Scrolling handouts available to guide students.
! Choose one game project to facilitate as a class or let
students choose which game they want to create: maze,
pong, or scrolling. Give students time to start building their
games or let them remix one of the starter projects.
! Encourage students to get feedback on their games-inprogress. We suggest the feedback fair activity: half of the
students stay in their seats with their projects open while
the other half walks around exploring projects, asking
questions, and giving feedback, then switch sides.
Optionally, have students add their final game projects to
the Games studio or a class studio.
! Ask students to respond to the reflection prompts in their
design journals or in a group discussion.

By completing this activity, students will:
+  develop greater fluency with computational concepts
(conditionals, operators, data) and practices
(experimenting and iterating, testing and debugging,
reusing and remixing, abstracting and modularizing)
by working on a self-directed game project

RESOURCES
! Maze handout
! Maze example starter project
http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/11414041
! Pong handout
! Pong example starter project
http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/10128515
! Scrolling handout
! Scrolling example starter project
http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/22162012
! Games studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/487504

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What was challenging about designing your game?
+  What are you proud of?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Do games include conditionals, operators, and data?

NOTES
+  To celebrate and share final game creations, we
recommend hosting an Arcade Day. Final game projects are
placed in presentation mode; students walk around and
play each other’s games.
+  The Scrolling game option introduces cloning. Help students
learn more about the cloning blocks with the Cloning
handout from Unit 5 Advanced Features.
76

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


