* page-020
UNIT
UIT 0 ACTIVITY

SCRATCH SURPRISE
S U G G E S T E D

By completing this activity, students will:
+  engage in an exploratory, hands-on experience with
Scratch

T I M E

15 – 3 0 M I N U T E S

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Help students open the Scratch project editor by navigating to
the Scratch website at http://scratch.mit.edu, signing in to
their Scratch accounts, and then clicking on “Create” at the top
of the page. Optionally, have the Scratch Surprise handout and
Scratch Cards available to guide students during their
explorations.
! Give students 10 minutes to explore the Scratch interface in an
open-ended way. Prompt students with, “You have 10 minutes
to make something surprising happen to the Scratch cat.” Or,
“Take 10 minutes to explore the interface fearlessly. What do
you notice?” Encourage students to work together, ask each
other for help, and share what they are figuring out.
! Ask for 3 or 4 volunteers to share with the entire group one
thing that they discovered. Optionally, after the volunteers
have shared, offer several challenges to the students:
- Did anyone figure out how to add sound?
- Did anyone figure out how to change the background?
- Did anyone figure out how to get help with blocks?

NOTES
+  A major goal of this activity is to establish a culture of
fearlessness, exploration, and peer collaboration. It is
expected that students (and their teachers!) will not know
everything ahead of time – and the environment becomes a
space where everyone is learning together.
+  Make sure that your computers have the latest version of
Flash to run Scratch:
http://helpx.adobe.com/flash-player.html
16

OBJECTIVES

RESOURCES
! Scratch Surprise Handout
! Scratch Cards
http://scratch.mit.edu/help/cards

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What did you figure out?
+  What do you want to know more about?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Do students know how to initiate a new project?
+  Do students understand the basic mechanism of snapping
Scratch blocks together?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


