* page-064
UNIT 3 ACTIVITY

CONVERSATIONS
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Optionally, explore the Penguin Joke starter project as a
group and have the Conversations handout available to guide
students.
! Invite students to see inside the Penguin Joke starter project
to observe how the conversation is animated using wait
blocks. Have students use the remix function and redesign
the Penguin Joke project to coordinate the conversation
using the broadcast, broadcast and wait, and when I receive
blocks.
! Encourage students to share their joke projects with one
another. We suggest the design demo activity: invite a few
students to present their work to the class and demonstrate
how they implemented broadcast. Optionally, have students
add their projects to the Conversations studio or a class
studio.
! Ask students to think back on the design process by
responding to the reflection prompts in their design
journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  If students are having trouble understanding how to use the
broadcast and when I receive block pair, invite them to
explore the code of example projects in the Broadcast
Examples studio: http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/202853

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  explore two different strategies for synchronizing
interactions between sprites (timing and broadcasting)
by remixing a joke project
+  develop greater familiarity with the computational
concept of events and parallelism and the practice of
reusing and remixing

RESOURCES
! Conversations handout
! Penguin Joke starter project
http://scratch.mit.edu/projects/10015800
! Conversations studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475547

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  How would you describe broadcast to someone else?
+  When would you use timing in a project? When would
you use broadcasting?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Do projects use the broadcast and when I receive blocks?
+  Can students explain how to use the broadcast, broadcast
and wait, and when I receive blocks?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 

60


