* page-056
UNIT 2 ACTIVITY

MUSIC VIDEO
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

45–60 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Introduce students to the idea of creating a music video in
Scratch that combines music with animation. Optionally, show
a few project examples from the Music Video studio.
! Give students open-ended time to work on their projects,
with the Music Video handout available to provide guidance
and inspiration. Encourage students to give credit on the
project page for using others’ ideas, music, or code.
! Help students give and receive feedback while developing
their projects. We suggest checking in with a neighbor: have
students stop midway and share their works-in-progress with
one other person or in their critique groups (see the Unit 0
Critique Group activity) to ask for feedback. Optionally, invite
students to add their projects to the Music Video studio or a
class studio.
! Ask students to think back on the design process by
responding to the reflection prompts in their design
journals or in a group discussion.

NOTES
+  To further personalize projects, help students include a
favorite song or record themselves singing or playing an
instrument, using features under the Sounds tab.
+  Questions about remixing and plagiarism may arise during
this activity. Take this opportunity to facilitate a discussion
about giving credit and attribution using the Scratch FAQ
about remixing: http://scratch.mit.edu/help/faq/#remix
52

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  be able to create a project that combines animation
and music by working on a self-directed music video
project
+  gain more familiarity with sprites, costumes, and
sounds

RESOURCES
! Music Video handout
! Music Video studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/475517

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What was a challenge you overcame? How did you
overcome it?
+  What is something you still want to figure out?
+  How did you give credit for ideas, music, or code that you
borrowed to use in your project?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Did the projects combine sprites and sound?
+  What parts of the projects did students choose to
animate?
+  Are there certain blocks or concepts introduced up until
now that students might still be struggling with? How
might you help?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


