* page-096
UNIT 5 ACTIVITY

KNOW WANT
LEARN
S U G G E S T E D

OBJECTIVES

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! In this self-directed learning activity, students will reflect on
current understandings and build new knowledge based on
their interests. Optionally, have the Know Want Learn
worksheet available to guide students.
! Ask students to reflect on what they know already and what
they want to know next about Scratch and creative
computing. Guide students in answering the first two
reflection prompts in their design journals or using the
Know Want Learn self-assessment worksheet. Next, give
students time to pursue learning interests from their “What
do you want to know?” responses. Finally, have students
respond to the third and fourth reflection prompts in their
design journals or using the Know Want Learn worksheet.
! Help students share their reflections and learning interests
with one another. We recommend peer interviews: divide
students into pairs and have them take turns interviewing
one another about their processes of reflection, selfassessment, and research.

By completing this activity, students will:
+  reflect on past projects and experiences
+  self-assess current knowledge and learning goals
+  pursue personal learning interests in a self-directed
research activity

RESOURCES
! Know Want Learn worksheet
! Scratch Wiki
http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu
! Scratch Discussion Forums
http://scratch.mit.edu/discuss
! Scratch FAQ
http://scratch.mit.edu/help/faq

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What do you know?
+  What do you want to know?
+  What did you learn?
+  What were your strategies for investigating what you
wanted to know?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Were students able to learn what they wanted to know?
+  What strategies and resources did they employ?

NOTES
+  Help students find and use other resources during their
research such as leveraging knowledgeable peers, posing
questions to family members and friends, or posting a
question in the Scratch discussion forums.

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 

92


