* page-070
UNIT 3 ACTIVITY

CREATURE
CONSTRUCTION
S U G G E S T E D

By completing this activity, students will:
+  be introduced to the computational practice of reusing
and remixing by contributing to a collaborative
drawing

T I M E

15 – 3 0 M I N U T E S

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! In this activity, students will draw a “creature” in three
parts.
! Give each student a tri-folded sheet of blank paper and one
minute to draw a “head” for their creature. Next, have
them fold the paper over so that the head is hidden, with
little prompts for where to continue the drawing. After the
head is hidden, students will pass the creature to another
student. Then, give students one minute to draw a “middle”
for their creature, using the guides from the head, but
without peeking! After the middles are hidden (and
prompts drawn), pass the creatures. Finally, give students
one minute to draw a “bottom” for their creature. When
finished, unfold the papers to reveal the collaboratively
constructed creatures!
! Post drawings on a wall or board and let students explore
the outcome of their creative contributions.
! Facilitate a group discussion about co-authorship,
collaboration, and reusing and remixing work.

NOTES
+  This activity is a perfect warm-up activity for the Pass It On
project! We recommend facilitating Creature Construction
directly before Pass It On.
+  Optionally, have students sign their names at the bottom of
each creature drawing they worked on to identify the
contributing artists.

66

OBJECTIVES

RESOURCES
! blank paper (approximately 8.5” by 11”), folded into
thirds
! things to sketch with (pencils, pens, markers, etc.)

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What is your definition of remixing?
+  Think about the creature you started (drew the “head”
for). How did your ideas become extended or enhanced
by others’ contributions?
+  Considering the creatures you extended (drew the
“middle” or “bottom” sections for), how did your
contributions extend or enhance others’ ideas?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Can students explain remixing and its benefits?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


