* page-088
UNIT 4 ACTIVITY

INTERACTIONS
S U G G E S T E D

T I M E

30–45 MINUTES

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! On their own or in small groups of 2-3 people, challenge
students to further explore Scratch by creating Scratch
programs that solve each of the nine Interactions
programming puzzles. These Interactions puzzles explore
Sensing blocks, engaging some of the more advanced
concepts in Scratch related to interactivity. Optionally, have
the Interactions handout available to guide students during
the activity.
! Each puzzle can have several possible solutions. Invite
students or groups to share different solutions and
strategies. We suggest the Pair-Share or Design Demo
activity to allow students to share their work and describe
their process. Optionally, have students add their projects to
the Interactions studio or a class studio.
! Ask students to think back on the challenge by responding
to the reflection prompts in their design journals or in a
group discussion.

NOTES
+  Choose particular challenges that highlight new blocks or
concepts that you would like students to explore. Or let
students invent their own interaction puzzle prompts.
+  Repurpose these puzzles as an unstructured activity for
students who finish other activities early or as a warm-up
challenge. Create a puzzle jar: print out, cut, fold, and place
copies of each puzzle description in a jar. Then, let students
pick puzzles from the jar to solve.
84

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  explore different approaches to making projects
interactive by solving a series of nine programming
puzzles
+  gain more fluency in the concepts of conditionals,
operators, and data, and the practice of testing and
debugging

RESOURCES
! Interactions handout
! Interactions studio
http://scratch.mit.edu/studios/487213

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  Which puzzles did you work on?
+  What was your strategy for solving the puzzles?
+  Which puzzles helped you think about your game
project?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Are the puzzles solved?
+  Did students explore other approaches for solving the
puzzles?
+  Are there certain blocks or concepts students are still
struggling with? How might you help?

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


