* page-016
UNIT 0 ACTIVITY

SCRATCH ACCOUNT
S U G G E S T E D

OBJECTIVES

By completing this activity, students will:
+  create a Scratch account
+  explore the Scratch online community and review the
Scratch community guidelines

T I M E

5 – 15 M I N U T E S

ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION
! Scratch online accounts require an email address. If students
cannot provide a personal or school email address, a
teacher or parent/guardian email address may be used.
Plan in advance if permission slips for online accounts need to
be collected.
! Help students navigate to the Scratch website at
http://scratch.mit.edu and click on “Join Scratch” to get
started creating a Scratch account. Optionally, have the Scratch
Account handout available to guide students. Give students
time to register, update their Scratch profile page, and
explore the Scratch online community. Encourage students
to practice signing in and out of their accounts.
! To make it easier for members of the class to find and
follow one another’s Scratch profiles, consider creating a
class list of usernames and names.

RESOURCES
! Scratch Account handout
! Scratch community guidelines
http://scratch.mit.edu/community_guidelines

REFLECTION PROMPTS
+  What is your Scratch account username?
+  What is a hint to help you remember your password?

REVIEWING STUDENT WORK
+  Were students able to create Scratch accounts and
successfully sign in and out of the Scratch website?

! Examine the Scratch community guidelines as a group to
discuss respectful and constructive behavior. Review how to
report inappropriate posts on the website.

NOTES
+  Teachers may prefer providing their email or creating a
class email address, as notifications of any inappropriate
behavior on the Scratch website will be sent to the email
that is registered with the account.
+  Check if any students already have an online account.
+  To remember passwords while maintaining privacy, have
students write down their username and password in sealed
envelopes that are kept in a secure place in the classroom.
12

NOTES TO SELF
! 
! 
! 
! 


